Welcome to AB Testing Podcast, your modern testing podcast.
Your hosts, Alan and Brent, will be here to guide you through topics on testing, leadership,
agile, and anything else that comes to mind.
Now, on with the show.
Hey everybody, welcome back to another episode of AB Testing.
Hey, Brent.
Hey, Alan.
We have someone else in the virtual room with us like to welcome to the podcast, David
Bishop.
Say hi, David.
Hi.
Perfect.
So David is...
Wait, wait.
David, this is a podcast?
Yeah, we're on Zoom and waving just isn't going to work.
Nodding your head, not going to happen.
So David is here because he has written a pretty cool new book called Meta-Agility.
Is that right?
Do I have the right David here?
That's right.
That's me.
Okay.
So I thought you would have a guest on this week and there's a lot of things that overlap
with things Brent and I have talked about in your writings.
And David and I talked about this, but as listeners know, there's AB testing in the
title and Brent and I have some testing background, but we don't talk a lot about
testing here.
We talk a lot about agile and lean and the modern testing principles, which have nothing
to do with testing.
And I think Meta-Agility will have some nice overlaps and good discussion points.
So are you ready?
When we have guests, we just asked them about 50,000 questions.
So are you ready for those David?
Sure.
First one is actually tell us a little bit more about yourself.
I'll give you the super softball and then the softball question about Meta-Agility.
So give a little intro.
Well, I'm an engineer by trade.
I've been in the IT and technology development business for about 25 years.
Worked for a lot of different companies, big and small, large corporations.
So like telecom and transportation and also a few startups as well and pretty much everything
in between.
And about 10 years ago, I was working with a company that was in the process of conducting
an agile transformation.
And this particular organization was at the time a relatively new business, industrial
IoT, and they were having a very hard time.
And to make a long story short, after watching them go through several iterations and hard
stops and trials and errors and things like that, I decided that I wanted to try and
solve that kind of problem.
But I thought, well, how do you, what's the best way to go about it?
Because it seems like nothing else is working very well.
And so I decided to go back to school and get a PhD.
And I focused on trying to solve that problem with some additional skills in business to
combine with my engineering background.
And I ended up publishing a body of work which resulted in some research papers and of course,
the book that we're talking about today.
There's some research which is very theoretical, like I see papers all the time that are,
this is great, you've never actually tried this in the real world, have you?
So I love it when I see people do research that actually results in practical or use
as practical examples and relies on evidence of knowledge.
Vincent and I are both fans of the Accelerate book by Nicole Forsgren, research-based but
also practical and pragmatic.
So I've seen that in your work as well.
So tell us, I've mentioned this meta agility word and this is one of the big outcomes
of your work in studies so far.
So what is meta agility and what's different about it?
Well, there's a few things.
Meta agility is essentially a framework for managing agile transformation to help companies
become number one in their market.
It focuses on the product development engine of the company.
One of the things that I discovered when I started out on this journey of researching
agile transformations and what made them succeed and what made them fail, started working with
real test cases, real use cases rather, beginning with the company that I was working
with who was trying to undergo this transformation.
And they were developing industrial IoT products which are essentially embedded systems like smart
meters, smart cars.
If you think about all the innovation happening today, it's really all about devices.
It's not just about software anymore.
But these devices are composed of hardware, firmware, and software developed on different
tracks by different teams, sometimes by different companies.
But it has to be tested and released as one cohesive product.
That's really tough to do using traditional agile techniques and agile approaches as they've
often been communicated over the first 10 years that the manifesto is released.
And so I set about trying to figure out, well, how do you do this with this type of context?
And after going through several case studies with that company and a few other companies,
I managed to figure out that some companies were doing things really, really well.
Most companies weren't doing things too well.
They had lackluster results or not the results they expected.
But there were a small subset of companies that managed to acquire what I called a super
agile adaptation that allowed them to leverage agility to not just have an efficient organization
or high quality products, but to become number one in their market.
And so meta agility captures the essence of that success and attempts to bottle it into
a framework that other companies can use to replicate the same results.
And some other things that are different about it are, first of all, when you compare it
to other frameworks like SAFE or SCRUM, or well, SCRUM is really more of a methodology
set of rituals, not really a framework as we call it.
But frameworks are more like LESS, DSDM, discipline agile, which was recently purchased by BMI.
And of course, SAFE.
Then you have Kanban, which is down at the process level, work in process level, which
is now through certain organizations like Lean Kanban University is being expanded into more
of a framework or management philosophy.
But you have SAFE at the 10,000 foot level, and you have SCRUM down at the team level,
and then you have work in progress down at the process level.
But what meta agility focuses on is actually the product development engine.
It focuses on product management, product development, project management, and your development and
testing teams to get the product out the door where the highest possible quality and
efficiency is possible to grab that early critical market share that has been a marker
for success for many companies, especially in new markets.
And also another component of meta agility is a new theory called agile vorticity, which
is a grounded theory that came out of the research.
And what that does is it tells you how agile you are.
So one of the big questions in this industry is, I'm doing all this agile transformation,
I'm doing all this work, but how do I know how agile it's making me?
How do I know how agile I am in relation to my market?
And how do I know if I need to be more agile or if I can be more agile and what I need to
do to get there?
So agile vorticity answers that question, which is a kind of a unique, actually a pretty unique
feature, and that's actually been patented.
That's another unique feature about meta agility is the other frameworks have not really been
patented.
This one has because it has that additional substance, theoretical substance that can be
applied in industry that others don't quite have.
So that's another unique attribute of it.
So I like the the I'm going to let Brent dive in on this one, but the idea of how agile are
you?
I'm going to ask you about this, this, this agile, I think you're at the agile, not agile
vortex, the agile business vortex.
I'm going to go into that in a minute, but it's one of the things you touched on touched
on our mission statement.
Brent came up with many years ago, which is accelerate the achievement and the simple
quality.
And he talked about balancing the delivery and the quality, something really, really important
to us.
So, Brent, any comments or feedback on that before I move ahead?
Oh, so many.
I saw you writing notes.
So so far away.
So number one, obviously, so we also are, have been in the industry a very long time.
The one thing that you mentioned, a couple of things that you mentioned, I would ask
for a little bit more clarity.
But one thing I find fascinating.
So I'm a data scientist manager now.
One of our favorite authors whose name escapes me, but Alan will remember it.
It wrote a book, How to Measure Anything.
And Hubbard.
Thank you.
And I think I have that book.
He's he's he's a hero.
The so the idea of what I think you said is you're quantifying the degree to which you
are agile.
Is that correct?
Yes, that's the attempt.
Yes.
In relation to the marketplace.
Yeah.
In addition to OK, so it's a relative measure.
That's right.
Yes.
Does it convert to all scopes of a team's operation?
For example, I run a data science team.
It's relatively small with this concept scale down.
Or is it is it intended more towards the executive decision making process?
It's the intended more towards the executive decision making process.
Now, it can once you have that result, you can you can drill down into, you know, to
the team level to try and pinpoint, you know, more agility or less agility with the teams.
But that requires some additional tooling to make that happen.
But it's mostly intended for the office and the executive level.
Yes.
So let's go back.
So Alan's going to piggyback on that one.
So I'll I'll I'll stay off any further questions on that one.
But you earlier mentioned IOT.
You noticed that there was having a you were having a hard time releasing, I believe you
said with traditional agile techniques.
What specifically was was their problem?
Well, there were actually several.
The company had attempted just quoting some of the one of the case studies that I worked
with the company that had made several attempts to conduct an agile transformation.
This company was in the smart meter industry.
This was a little over 10 years ago.
And to give you a little bit of background on the smart metering industry.
During the Obama administration, there was a green initiative that kicked off quite
a bit of funding to encourage utilities to adopt new technologies to update the grid.
And so there were a number of companies that were popping up to push this smart grid
technology, the smart metering technology, the the actually wireless networks that would
allow you to measure power remotely and turn power off and on remotely and do all sorts
of neat, fancy things.
And so this this technology encompassed hardware, firmware and software that were developed
by separate teams and in many cases, separate companies, because we had to support meters
developed by different companies as well, depending on the utilities needs.
And so it became very difficult to as we try to conduct an agile transformation, most
of the consultants and I think they tried three or four times using some of the biggest
consulting firms around at the time to try and conduct an agile transformation.
And so what this they had one problem after another, essentially, most of the most of
the consultants didn't really understand the context too well, they didn't understand embedded
systems, they didn't understand, they were came from a purely software environment.
And that was probably the biggest challenge.
And so they had a they had a really hard time trying to figure out, well, how do we make
these other teams agile, we can make the software teams agile, but we can't do anything with
the firmware teams or the hardware teams.
And so they went round and round with that and also coordinating the interactions between
all these teams and managing the product so that it came out as one cohesive product.
And so that it was released with the expected feature set on time was a big challenge.
We had situations where, you know, firmware team might be waiting on the hardware teams
hardware so they could test or the software team might be waiting on the firmware teams
release so they could test or develop against.
And so there were all these interdependencies made the product very complex and very hard
to take a pure agile approach and adapted to that context.
And they they the final time they tried, it was a it was a terrible failure.
They ended up firing half the leadership, including the consultants.
And then we after talking with them myself, they allowed me to kick off a research study
to try and make some changes and monitor those changes over a period of time.
It was basically about a five to 10 year study with that context as well as a few other
case studies to try and figure out what the real happy path was.
And what do you think was the single most important breakthrough in that transformation?
Well, there were actually several it's kind of hard to pinpoint one single breakthrough.
But well, I'd say probably the biggest breakthrough, I would say would be hybrid agile implementations.
So hybrid agile implementations, as we traditionally know it have kind of a bad rap in our industry,
you know, they think of when I hear hybrid agility, they think of wagel or scrummer
fall or, you know, kind of a situation where you tried to be agile and you basically backslid
and you have like this mixed process now and it's considered kind of a bad thing, right?
But our research found that after making some surgical changes and doing a lot of testing
and trial and error, we managed to adopt a hybrid agile implementation that allowed
this company to become number one in its market.
And that required the different development tracks, hardware, firmware and software to
adopt agile differently.
So you would have, for example, the software teams would be more of a pure agile type of
adaptation where they would have their two weeks sprints, they'd have their daily standups
and they'd have all that stuff.
And then the firmware teams moved a little bit slower.
So they would have maybe 30 day sprints and they may have standups not quite so
often.
And then you would have the hardware teams who would have still more of a waterfall
type of release approach.
It could be 12 to 18 months for their hardware to be released.
However, they would adopt certain techniques to keep up with the other teams.
They would do rapid prototyping.
They would adopt something, they would use something called what we called C-level
projects, which were projects under $60,000 that would allow them to develop a quick
prototype to provide to the other software firmware teams so they could do their
development and testing against it because this interdependency between these teams was
a big problem.
And so over time we figured out, you know, in agile you talk about, we hear a lot
about interactions, people in interactions, right, and how important that is.
But what is it?
And so what Medagility does is it classifies all these different interaction
types and actually provides a roadmap for the types of interactions and
communications you need to have to duplicate this kind of success.
And it's proven very effective.
It would help this company become number one in their market.
They got more meters on the ground than any of their competitors.
They became number one in that industry.
And Medagility basically productizes these learnings so that other companies can
duplicate it, especially in the same context.
Because when you think about, again, when you think about everything that's happening
today, it's all about devices.
And that embedded systems context has become so important, if not the most
important context today.
And it's something many companies still struggle with.
I'm going to build on that and then segue because I want to get into the
Agile business vortex.
But one of the things you're talking about a little bit, and maybe we mentioned
this when we chatted earlier, is I read articles on the internet about how Agile
doesn't work.
And then they describe what they're doing and they've taken one word from one
principle in Agile and think they're doing Agile practices.
And there's a lot more to it.
And it sounds like focusing on different aspects of the communication, which is a
big part of Agile and driving those as a way to almost hold the business
accountable for actually doing Agile.
I don't want to say doing Agile.
It sounds weird.
Following Agile practices a lot closer to the original author's intent, which is
missing in a lot of teams.
Yeah.
That's a huge problem.
I mean, Agile, what was it?
There was this movie I saw.
What was it?
Pirates of the Caribbean, where they talk about the Pirates Code and they
say, well, it's not really like rules.
It rules.
It's more like guidelines or something like that.
Right.
Remember that line of the movie.
Well, that's kind of what the Agile manifesto is.
It's a set of guidelines and it's open to interpretation to some extent.
And it's often interpreted incorrectly.
Yeah.
And they're they're principles.
They're they're decision making framework, but there's also principles.
I can't remember at least 12 because I just quoted the 12th of the other
day.
But this is a nice segue into like, tell me more, tell us more, tell everyone
more about the this Agile business vortex and what that covers, how teams
use it.
Just give us a little bit more of an insight into what that is.
Right.
So it's actually the Agile vorticity is a fairly, fairly complex theory.
I've actually got an entire board here.
I know this is a podcast, but I have a little board here to kind of
match that out.
I will describe it to you.
There's pictures and it's blue.
Right.
There are also swirlies.
Yes.
Yeah, absolutely.
So I'll explain that.
So you know, if you look at the cover of the book Managility, you'll notice there's a picture
of a whirlpool on the front.
And since this is a relatively complex theory, one of the ways to explain a complex theory
is through a thought experiment, which is, you know, that's what Einstein did with the
elevator right when he explained relatively stuff like that.
So thought experiments are actually a great way to explain what a theory is and how it
works.
And so in my case, I used a whirlpool.
And so if you think about a flow of water in a river, for example, the flow of water
that's closer to the bank is going to be moving slower than the water in the center of the
river, because the water closer to the bank is slowed down by friction.
And so if you put a vorticity meter, for example, which is like a little buoy with a flag on
it, you put that in between the two flows of water, it's going to spin very fast because
the two flows of water are moving at different speeds.
That's called vorticity.
And so the greater the difference is between the two flows of water, the higher the
vorticity is going to be.
If the two flows of water are moving at relatively the same speed, you're going to have zero
vorticity and that little buoy is not going to be moving very much.
How does that relate to this?
So a whirlpool, using the whirlpool as a thought experiment here, we have with innovation
today, innovation is moving very, very fast.
The markets are moving very, very fast.
It's almost like a vortex in itself, if you will, when you think about how fast
technology is moving.
And so the center of the whirlpool is depicted as market pressure, the pressure from the
market. And then the first outer rings of the whirlpool are depicted as market
agility, which is, again, composed of market pressure and also product genesis.
So as a product manager, I'm trying to develop a product that's going to meet the
market demands.
And I'm going to put together a spec or a set of features based on what I think the
market wants.
And so that is my market agility.
Now, the market agility may be moving at a different speed from process agility.
Process agility is the agility of my organization, my development testing teams.
How fast are they moving?
And when I look at an embedded systems organization, those teams are moving at
different speeds.
You have software teams that move faster, firmware teams that move a little bit
slower, and then hardware teams on the outer rings of the whirlpool that move
the slowest.
But the combination of those three rings is your process agility.
And so the process agility and the market agility, what you want is you want those
to be moving at the same speed.
You want the agility of your teams and your organization to match the agility,
the market pressure, and the product genesis that the product managers are
setting for.
And so you're measuring the speed of the water between those two flows.
And that encompasses the inner rings and the outer rings of the whirlpool,
which is being powered by the market pressure.
And so if you put a buoy in between those two flows of water, if the market
agility is moving very, very fast and your process agility of your
organization is moving slower, you're going to have high vorticity.
That buoy is going to be moving very fast.
So what you want is you want your process agility of your organization to
move faster so that it moves at close to or at the same speed as market agility
so that that vorticity is down to zero.
So that high vorticity tells you that you're probably not as agile as you
need to be.
Zero vorticity tells you, oh, I'm very agile or as agile as I need to be.
And so theoretically, that's how that works.
Now, there's a whole set of metrics that you use to actually build that
measurement, which is based on a PPM solution that's also talked about in the book.
But theoretically, that's how it works.
So I realize you're using the whirlpool as sort of an inspirational metaphor.
But I'm curious, what negative consequences have you
discovered if, say, the outer rings are actually more agile than the inner rings?
Right.
That hasn't happened too often.
It's definitely not the typical problem yet.
But I think what often happens is too much technical debt.
So you may have product owners or product managers that create requirements that are
not entirely based on customer need.
Oftentimes, product owners, they don't change the way they develop requirements.
They develop requirements in the same way they did when they were BAs in a waterfall
environment.
Their job title changes, but they don't change the way they develop those
requirements.
But David, I have been in this industry for 25 years, and I know how to ship
software.
Right?
Right.
That's sort of the attitude on the...
In terms of initiating people change, you've covered process, you've covered,
obviously, framework change.
I found from my own transformation, it's actually changing the mindset of the
people involved is by far the single most critical aspect.
Right.
And for that reason, we talked about it earlier, and I'll let you go back to
describing it because I think I got my answer.
I don't know if Alan told you this already, but I actually think the Agile
Manifesto is simultaneously one of the greatest tools, but it's also the
cause of the most harm to Agile.
Yeah.
And it's due to that people aspect.
It's due to the fact that they've written things ambiguously.
Right.
And earlier you mentioned a great deal around Agile, and you made a
comment around teams were deploying pure Agile.
And I'm at a point where I don't actually think that it's such a thing
that implies, for example, what's common is Agile and Scrum are
synonyms.
I actually am now at a point where I actually think Scrum itself is the
hybrid in between waterfall and Agile because Scrum is more of an
iterative model, and I found that when it's typically deployed, it's not
very adaptive at all.
Anyway, I'm preaching we're here to talk with you.
So it seems like when you said the ring, so if the outer ring is going
faster than the inner ring, it's not going to be viewed potentially as the
outer ring doing something wrong or negatively impactful, but that the
inner ring is going too slow and that's probably where you're going to focus
your attention.
Is that right?
Yes, I would say that's probably a relatively fair statement.
The research found that the organization, if this is done properly, they
work together to try and keep the rings in sync.
That's what the whole set of interconnections and interactions is all
about is to try and work to keep those rings in sync.
And so it's rare, if it's done properly, it's rare that the typically
slower moving ring on the outside is going to move faster than the others.
In most embedded systems organizations, they use software as the early
strike force, for example, and the way they've designed the product.
That's why the software teams move faster than the others by
nature because they're software, but also they're leveraged that way in
order to reduce cost.
So for example, using like the Boeing 737 Max as an example, where you
had this flaw in the design, they attacked that with a software solution.
Well, let's just do a software update because that's typically how
embedded systems organizations work is they'll try and use the software
team as an early strike force to resolve these problems quickly because
solving it with a hardware, a firmware solution, it's going to take a
much longer amount of time and not be nearly as agile.
So typically these organizations do work together very closely to maintain
synchronicity and the Metagelie framework explains how to do that.
Have you come across the Steve Denning book, the Leaders Guide, or Steve
Denning's writing in general, but he wrote a book called the Leaders
Guide to Radical Management, another book on agile after that, the
scale, something about the scale of agile or something, but he's a
business author and I, there's a little bit of a parallel here
because he talks about agility at the business level, at the process level,
which I find an interesting compliment to what you're talking about right now.
I've heard of him, but I have not, I haven't read that latest book you
mentioned now.
Yeah, I don't like the latest book that much, but the Leaders
Guide to Radical Management is he was discovering agile and finding ways
it worked in the business perspective.
Years ago, I read this maybe 10 years ago, so very early on and
pretty happy with that one.
So worth checking out, worth for the listeners checking out as well,
in addition to your book.
So Brent, you had something to say?
Since we're on the topic of authors and I'm curious, obviously,
Metagelie is going to be the one that you're going to probably recommend.
So let's eliminate David Bishop from the list of authors.
What authors have you read on this topic that based on your research,
you would recommend or perhaps inspired you in your research?
Like who are the authors based off of your data are spot on?
Well, I like Jim Highsmith quite a bit.
Many of his books I think are really great.
I like when he talks about the, which is a big transformation for
how companies manage their business.
And the books where he talks about the iron triangle versus the agile
triangle and understanding value and quality in the agile perspective.
It's very important and I think it's something many people struggle with.
Understanding what value is, how to measure value, where it comes from,
the idea of intrinsic and extrinsic quality.
And being able to translate the old iron triangle, as we all are very
familiar with, into this new agile triangle, I think is just very important.
It's very important to understand that in order to develop good agile metrics.
And I think developing good agile metrics is important to actually figuring
out your vorticity and where you are in the market, as well as down to the team level.
And so that's a good example of an author.
Also, most of the authors I've worked with, actually worked with and actually
studied from, published quite a bit in business journals, like MIS Quarterly and
information systems journals, things like that.
And they've been published.
Curing Convoy, for example, Richard Baskerville.
Bluten is another author that publishes quite a bit in the agile business realm,
so to speak, but these are mostly academic publications or engaged scholarship
publications, which I've translated into industrial applications through the work
I've done, but I think that's very important.
How about the reverse?
Which authors say are popular in the agile space that you fear are leading
people in a less than productive direction?
Well, I try not to attack.
I told them we'd be nice.
I'm not asking him to attack anyone.
So maybe you don't mention the authors, but in terms of popular agile, how about
themes or concepts that are out there without targeting an author?
I'm not interested in creating author to author drama.
I'm more interested in educating the audience around, hey, here's a series of
concepts that are very popular out there and this could be harmful.
Do you have a list along those lines?
Yeah, I certainly do.
Okay.
And some of these concepts are not necessarily the issue I have with these
concepts is that they're not necessarily bad within themselves, but I fear
sometimes that they detract from what agile is really all about.
You know, there's a lot of books and publications out there that are focused
on agile as a way to make teams happy.
Agile is a way to work together well and love each other.
And there's ways of leveraging agile to become a better leader and things like that.
And these are, I think they're important, but I've seen probably a greater
focus on those types of themes lately than the theme of competition, the
theme of, Hey, the purpose of agile is to become more competitive, to get higher
quality products out the door faster before your competition does so that you
can gain more market share.
That's the real definition of agility.
And I feel like many of these publications by focusing so much on those
other themes are losing the essence of what agile is really all about.
And that translates into making it more difficult sometimes to convince
executives to take on an agile transformation because they want to see
the business case.
They want to see how an agile transformation is going to translate to the bottom
line, how it's going to improve profits, how it's going to improve market share.
And if you present it as a way to, well, this is going to make your teams happy here.
It's going to make people work together better.
It's, uh, you know, that sort of thing.
It's going to make people feel more fulfilled and all that, which it can do.
I think very agile certainly can do those things, but focusing so much on that,
I think is, uh, uh, I think we're, we're put ourselves in danger of losing the
essence of it and makes it more difficult to build a case for agile
transformation in many ways.
That's a really great call out.
I'm going to, I'm going to jump on this one ahead of you, Brent, cause this
is music to our ears because, uh, we talk about focus and the user.
We quote Eric Reese a lot.
Our engineering efforts are useless until it's in the hands of customers and our
focus is in proving the business and only the customer understands can really
truly evaluate quality and a lot of things Brent and I say, and people do
get caught up in the, I'm going to use the D word in the dogma of agile and say,
well, it's important that we, that we'd follow these rituals properly or the
rituals as I interpret them, but no, those are a how and customers don't care.
I gave a talk at a conference maybe 10 years ago on test metrics and I, I
mocked up a back in the days when you can actually buy a box that had software
in it, anybody remember that?
Yeah.
But I mocked up a box that said had a bunch of metrics, like over
1000 unit tests, 78% code coverage.
You know, customers don't care about the how.
And the important thing is the business and getting something out quickly.
And another thing we've talked about a lot you brought up, which I'm glad
you brought up is the ability, the agility to get to market quickly and ahead
of your competition is so, so important.
Especially in this fickle world where you not only have to get out first, but
you have to keep the customers happy because you only need to make one little
glitch before sometimes maybe not an embedded systems where there's more of
an investment, but often they'll, they'll change, change directions.
Anyway, Brent build on that.
Yeah, I was going to say, I mean, I think the issue at hand is it is the
context that you're trying to sell agile too, right?
Many of our listeners circle back and say, Hey, you've convinced me now,
please give me advice on how I convince, uh, the execs to play a hand here.
And at minimum support at maximum, uh, drive, drive leadership
around the transformation, the, I mean, the, a, I agree with David that, that,
uh, both are absolutely needed, but I, I also agree with David that, um,
the executive is the place to start.
There's a lot of science out there already that shows highly engaged
teams have a greater customer empathy, right?
There are more folks at the ground level, uh, than at the executive level.
So having the, the ability for them to be aligned with the executive's
decision principles, but actively learning and making, uh, tactical tweaks
or changes that are in line with what their customer is doing and in
engaged fashion, really from my experience, accelerates agility.
It, it, uh, gets everyone aligned in applying their knowledge at their
levels to move forward.
That said, I wouldn't want to over pivot on the executive level as well.
Cause time and time again, I've seen great agile practices move forward
and get blocked by essentially commanding control at the top, who is often
far too busy to understand the details.
So it's an intricate balance.
Um, and I think what I've heard from, from, from David earlier, right?
He, I suspect my agility is going to be a, well, constructing hybrid models
that work best for the context of your business and your market.
Is that right?
Yeah, that's a good way to position it.
Yeah.
That's so from my experience, there really is no such thing as that.
It, it is a ever increasing set of tools, uh, that may or may not apply
in your particular context, right?
You mentioned earlier, Hey, it doesn't make sense for the hardware team,
perhaps to do a daily standup.
Whereas someone in a different team, I forget your example you use, but they
will need to do a daily standup, uh, retro retrospectives, I mean, you got
to understand what, what it is that you're trying to do, what it is, the approach.
I've actually found agile is significantly more complex to competently
deploy than waterfall waterfall has very prescriptive do this than this.
Right.
But a lot of people take up a framework and they go, Oh, we must follow the rules.
And I think they forget the number one rule of agile and that's adapt.
Right.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Anyway, do you want to go to your next series?
I even build on that and go on, but yeah, that one of the things Brent and
I talk about a lot is that people focus on the iterative process of, of
iterative as being agile, which is really just the old spiral model in a way.
But what we focus on is just, it's the ability to adapt and that's what we
want to do because we need to, that's only way we can build the right
things for our customers.
So, uh, one thing I'm curious about to go into the question.
So you did a lot of research and I love research based writing.
So this is fantastic.
I'm always curious though, when I talked to someone who's done some research
and written a book about, about how to apply what they've learned in their
research, what surprised you in your research?
Anything come like that was, cause we're always with our research.
We're often trying to prove or disprove a hypothesis.
Right.
Often we go, well that there's an outlier.
So I'm kind of curious what, what, if anything you found during your research,
that was a little bit or a lot bit surprising to you.
One of the things that was surprising was that, uh, to be able to see the linkage
between the agile adaptation that was being made and the companies becoming
number one in their market, to be able to see that linkage and define that
linkage and know that it's there and actually see the results.
That was fascinating to me.
You know, in our heads, we know conceptually that should happen, but to
actually see it work successfully is, is a joyous thing to see and exciting.
Uh, it was also surprising to me that a hybrid agile implementation would
provide the results that it did, but you know, previously I thought like many
people that, oh, this needs to be more of a pure agile adaptation.
No need to follow the rules, but the rules have changed.
Uh, they often change based on the context, uh, and they have
changed often over time, you know, there's been one of the things I talk
about in my book is how, uh, if you look at the four tenets of agility of
the agile manifesto, how those have sort of changed a little bit, uh, in
their application today and in our best case studies compared to, you know,
the way they were written, uh, 20 years ago.
And so those are some of the differences that I saw that, uh, I was surprised by.
I have, I have a question sort of related to that and then we should
probably think about, uh, wrapping this thing up, but I think we answered
this earlier, but I want to ask it more specifically.
So when you set out on this journey to discover like you had some
Eureka moment around meta agility, did that come out of the research or as
you had kind of his concept of mind as you began and you're trying to prove that.
Or what did you, there's a better way.
What did you see missing in the world of agile that led you
down this path of meta agility?
The main thing I saw missing was how agile am I, how do I
know if this is working and how do I measure it?
That's what was missing.
And I didn't know how to find it, but that was one of the things I was looking for.
And I used a, uh, qualitative method of, uh, a method of qualitative research
called ground and theory analysis, which focuses on what the central phenomenon
is in the case studies that you're seeing and helps you derive
that central phenomenon out.
And that's what agile vorticity became.
Yeah.
So it's, I think it's less of to go back to your previous point,
less of how agile am I, but is it more of how agile do I need to be?
I think it's both.
I mean, it tells you how agile you are and you know, how agile you probably
need to be and how to get there.
And then again, it's relative to the market, right?
So yes, we've, we've talked on the podcast many a times, how, how speed to
market and adapting to market challenges is, is, is, is a winner for that company.
And there's just millions of case studies on this topic now.
So it's sort of the, the old, uh, lion, the lion versus the zebra, right?
It's both sides need to move as fast as possible.
But if you're, if you're to win a market, you just need to be faster than
the next fastest or the next leader.
So in some regards, uh, and if you have the right muscle, then, then you're
well prepared to adapt, um, to any other sort of challenges or
up and coming rule changes.
That's, that is what I see is going forward.
The biggest, the biggest next challenge now that David, you've
solved how to measure, uh, agility.
I think the next biggest challenge is going to be sort of to predict when
the rules are changing again.
Right.
Yeah.
And in the book, I talked a little bit about what's, uh, what's coming
forward, what some of the changes, uh, that we're seeing in some of the
research, uh, the idea of, uh, there's a lot of talk about Kanban and how
Kanban is integrated into agile by managing your work in progress and how
is that going to work with some of the other frameworks and also, uh, how
the agile manifesto is going to continue to change and evolve as
technology and innovation itself evolves.
Uh, you know, for example, people in process over tools or people in
interactions over processes and tools as well, the tenants of agile, right.
And that's what we learned 20 years ago, but tools have evolved.
Tools have gotten a lot better tools today.
Uh, they support collaboration.
They support, uh, distributed teams.
And so tools are not necessarily a bad thing that can help you
actually become more agile.
So that's just one tiny example, uh, of how maybe the, the tenants of the
manifesto may somewhat change over time and be interpreted differently as
technology changes and the industry changes.
So research I've read recently along those same lines, um, points out that
it's actually people processes and tools are critical and it's measuring the
right integration between all three.
And that, and I think that's to the point you just made.
Yeah, absolutely.
All right, Alan, I'll let you close.
Well, gee, thanks, Brent.
Yeah.
What Brent said that that balance of those things is important.
Uh, in my role, I have, I carry the process hammer, but I use it very
carefully because I need to balance.
I need to balance what the org can tolerate what's needed for our business.
And sometimes I sometimes I'll have to push it up a little bit more
process into what we do, uh, while retaining our culture of autonomy and
agility, and it's, it's a fun leadership challenge to balance those things.
I do have recently been saying something tools, not rules, which may
be good for a t-shirt sometime.
Right.
Of course I could have other implications.
Yeah.
So, uh, but, uh, you made me think of it anyway.
Uh, meta agility is the book.
I'll put a link into the show notes.
Uh, and I want to thank you, David, for taking the time to be on the
podcast with Brent and I and Brent's virtually applauding.
Uh, that means applauding on mute.
I hope you're doing well in this time of everyone stays in their
chair at home all the time world that we live in, uh, and, and
where about in the country are you?
I'm in Atlanta, Georgia.
In hot land to Georgia.
So that's right.
What's the real quick, just what's the, before I close here, what's the
COVID situation there are you all, uh, just hanging out at home, same as
up here in the Northwest is sort of the same thing countrywide?
Uh, well I have been, uh, I'm down here in my basement in my fortified bunker.
Perfect.
But, but, uh, as you probably have heard, you know, our governor has, uh,
governor camp has been somewhat controversial in the fact that he's, uh,
been one of the first to lift some of the restrictions and open up, uh,
hair salons and nail salons and restaurants and things like that.
My nails are fine.
So I'm going to chill at home.
Yeah, mine too.
I can let my hair grow out and, and, you know, put it in the ponytail or whatever.
Not my plan as well.
I'm gonna, I'm gonna keep it safe.
I just got myself a wall.
Oh my God.
Yeah, baby.
The glare, the glare off that head.
Wow.
So I'm actually, I have, uh, I'm going to start owning a remote team in Atlanta.
And it's interesting because we've been looking at it.
You just said camp did this and I find that fascinating because based on a lot of
predictions, uh, Georgia hasn't gotten over the hump yet.
Right.
Yeah.
We had, uh, we were in the top, uh, I think top five, you know, thanks to the
Atlanta hearts field airport, which is one of the biggest airports and we're a
major hub for Delta and other airlines.
And so, yeah, we got, uh, we got hit with a lot of cases.
So why doesn't governor camp like the old people in his state?
I don't know.
I'm not sure.
All right.
We'll leave this as the, as, as the bonus footage, but no, we'll, we'll
have us in the podcast again.
Thanks both of you for taking the time to be here today.
Uh, this will go out on Monday.
Uh, I have your email, make sure you get a direct link to the, to the
recording, but good luck to you in success of the book, uh, success of your
health and everything else that you do.
So thanks again.
And, uh, we'll see you next time.
Same to you and thank you both for having me.
It was a joy, David.
Thank you.